Last Thursday, my esteemed colleague Steven Peterson and I launched our first course on Generative Patterns for AI at the Midwest Architecture Community Conference (MACC).



This excellent conference was lead by my friend for almost 40 years, Youssef Haddad. We are so grateful for his leadership and vision!



MACC was a great vehicle to launch this new effort since the audience is almost all senior architects and the theme of the conference this year was how enterprise architecture teams can accelerate generative AI projects.



Generative AI is very new, and we have many challenges getting teams to use consistent terminology.  What does that little box "LLM" on the whiteboard really mean?  Our focus for the class was creating new GenAI patterns and terminology that was consistent with existing patterns such as the Content Enrichment pattern from Enterprise Integration Patterns.



For example, my poll last week showed that 3/4 of my contacts preferred the more standard term "Prompt Enrichment" over the newer term "RAG".  Using precise terms helps architects have higher bandwidth discussions and help us communicate design tradeoffs with speed and precision.



Steve also talked about how he is using ChatGPT to analyze architecture diagrams and to generate improved architecture diagrams directly in ChatGPT using the powerful mermaid-capable plugins.  Go Steve!



All of our new course material - including the sides and pattern libraries - were published on my GitHub repository and are covered under a Creative Commons Noncommercial license.  You are free to reuse and remix without fees under many conditions.  Here is the link to our GitHub microsite generated by mkdocs:



https://dmccreary.github.io/genai-arch-patterns/



Feel free to submit pull-requests if you have new patterns you would like to add.  We also plan to add some new content on how architects are using generative AI to be more productive.  Let either of us know if you want to be on a notification list.



Thanks to Charles Betz, Michael Arulfo, CPM, CLP, CSPO, Grant Ecker and other architects in the area for the excellent feedback on this early work.



#AI #GenerativeAI #Patterns #DesignPatterns #PatternLanguage #MACC #Architecture #Training #creativecommons 